
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 Log In 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 share 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Trending 
 
 
 
   
     
 
 
   Lifestyle 
   
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
   
 
 
   Lifestyle 
   
 
 Nov 1, 2013 @ 11:57 AM 
   
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
   Billionaire Tesla CEO Elon Musk Buys Neighbor's Home in Bel Air For $6.75 Million 
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   Trulia   
 
 
   ,  
   
   
   
   Contributor 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. 
   
   
 
 
   
 
   
   
     
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Elon Musk's $17M mansion is clearly visible behind his new home. Image via Trulia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Elon Musk 
 
 
 
 
 Billionaire business mogul Elon Musk  has just paid $6.75 million for his across-the-street neighbor’s home in ritzy  Bel Air, California . 
 Musk,  #41 on the Forbes 400 , has amassed billions via  Tesla ,  SpaceX  and  PayPal . He currently lives across the street in a  home he purchased on January 1, 2013 for $17,000,000 . His current home has  7 bedrooms, 9 bathrooms and has 20,248 square feet  of interior living space and incredible outdoor spaces. 
 
 
 According to property records, his brand new purchase, just a few hundred feet away, was purchased on October 24, 2013 for $6,750,000.  The ranch-style home is substantially smaller than his existing abode, with just 3 bedrooms, 4.5 bathrooms and 2,756 square feet, with an oval pool and private guest cottage. The home was the longtime residence of  “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory” actor Gene Wilder , who lived there from 1976-2007. 
 What it lacks in size, Musk’s new property makes up for in opportunity. The home is the perfect location to develop a dream property. It sits on a one acre promontory overlooking a beautiful stream, mature trees and the white sand traps of the 13th green and 14th fairway of the prestigious Bel-Air Country Club Golf Course.  The lot is elevated, allowing for distant city views. 
 
 The single, twice-divorced Musk currently lives in an  incredible estate that he previously rented for three years before he officially purchased it January 2013 . It’s likely he’ll either capitalize on the opportunity presented by the new home and build an even more over-the-top mansion, or he’ll raze the existing home and create even better views and privacy for his current home. 
 He’s not the first billionaire to buy their neighbor’s homes. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg  and  Yahoo! CEO Marissa Mayer  both recently paid millions of dollars for adjacent and nearby properties to ensure privacy. 
 With a  net worth of $6.7 billion , Musk has the purchasing power to gobble up plenty more pricey properties. 
 Aside from his Tesla and SpaceX ventures, Musk is in the news constantly after he  unveiled plans to develop the Hyperloop , a rapid-speed train that claims to be able to transport passengers from San Francisco to Los Angeles in 30 minutes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The neighboring home sits right above the Bel Air Country Club. Image via Trulia 
 
 
 
 
 See more images of Elon Musk's new home at  Trulia Luxe Living . 
 
   
   
   
 
   
 
   
 Comment on this story
			 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 Print 
 
 
 Website Feedback 
 
 
 News Tip 
 
 
 Report Corrections 
 
 
 Reprints & Permissions 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
     
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
