
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Encyclopædia Britannica 
 
 
 
 
 Subscribe 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Log In · Join 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Spotlight 
 Demystified 
 Quizzes 
 Galleries 
 Lists 
 On This Day 
 Biographies 
 
 
 
 
 Search Britannica 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What are you looking for? 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Browse popular topics: 
 
 Eyjafjallajökull volcano 
 plate tectonics 
 Spain 
 list of art and design movements of the 20th century 
 Salem witch trials 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Elon Musk American entrepreneur 
 
 
 
 Written By: 
 Erik Gregersen 
 
 
 See Article History 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Elon Musk 
 American entrepreneur 
 
 
 
 
 
 born June 28, 1971 (age 46) Pretoria ,  South Africa founder of SpaceX PayPal Zip2 
 
 
 View Biographies Related To 
 Categories 
 
 business 
 
 Dates 
 
 June 28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Related Biographies 
 
 
 Marc Tarpenning 
 
 
 Travis Kalanick 
 
 
 Martin Eberhard 
 
 
 Sidney Harman 
 
 
 Sean Parker 
 
 
 Perry Chen 
 
 
 Reed Hastings 
 
 
 Peter Thiel 
 
 
 Ted Turner 
 
 
 Sam Yagan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Elon Musk ,   (born  June 28, 1971 ,  Pretoria ,  South Africa ), South African-born American  entrepreneur  who cofounded the electronic-payment firm  PayPal  and formed  SpaceX , maker of launch vehicles and spacecraft. He was also one of the first significant investors in, as well as chairman and chief executive officer of, the  electric car  manufacturer Tesla Motors. [END-1ST-PARA] Video released by spacecraft maker SpaceX celebrating its Dragon capsule, which on May 25, 2012, … SpaceX (A Britannica Publishing Partner) Musk was born to a South African father and a Canadian mother. He displayed an early talent for  computers  and entrepreneurship. At age 12 he created a  video game  and sold it to a computer magazine. In 1988, after obtaining a Canadian passport, Musk left South Africa because he was unwilling to support  apartheid  through  compulsory military service  and because he sought the greater economic opportunities available in the  United States . Musk attended  Queen’s University  in Kingston, Ontario, and in 1992 he transferred to the  University of Pennsylvania , Philadelphia, where he received bachelor’s degrees in  physics  and  economics  in 1995. He enrolled in graduate school in physics at  Stanford University  in  California , but he left after only two days because he felt that the  Internet  had much more potential to change society than work in physics. That year he founded  Zip2, a company that provided maps and business directories to online newspapers. In 1999 Zip2 was bought by the computer manufacturer  Compaq  for $307 million, and Musk then founded an online financial services company, X.com, which later became PayPal, which specialized in transferring money online. The online auction  eBay  bought PayPal in 2002 for $1.5 billion. Musk was long convinced that for life to survive, humanity has to become a multiplanet species. However, he was dissatisfied with the great expense of  rocket  launchers. In 2002 he founded Space Exploration Technologies (SpaceX) to make more affordable rockets. Its first two rockets were the  Falcon  1 (first launched in 2006) and the larger Falcon 9 (first launched in 2010), which were designed to cost much less than competing rockets. A third rocket, the  Falcon Heavy , scheduled for launch in 2017, was designed to carry 53,000 kg (117,000 pounds) to orbit, nearly twice that of its largest competitor, the Boeing Company’s Delta IV Heavy, for one-third the cost. SpaceX also developed the  Dragon  spacecraft, which carries supplies to the  International Space Station  and is designed to carry as many as seven astronauts. Musk sought to reduce the expense of spaceflight by developing a fully reusable rocket that could lift off and return to the pad it launched from. Beginning in 2012, SpaceX’s  Grasshopper rocket made several short flights to test such technology. In addition to being CEO of SpaceX, Musk was also chief designer in building the Falcon rockets, Dragon, and Grasshopper. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
				Britannica Stories 
 
 
 
 
 
 Demystified / Geography 
									Which Waters Do You Pass Through When You “Sail the Seven Seas”? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Spotlight / History 
									Pirate Week 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Spotlight / Literature & Language 
									The Eternal Legacy of  Treasure Island 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Demystified / Society 
									Are There Laws on the High Seas? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Musk had long been interested in the possibilities of electric cars, and in 2004 he became one of the major funders of  Tesla Motors , an electric car company founded by  entrepreneurs   Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning . In 2006 Tesla introduced its first car, the  Roadster , which could travel 394 km (245 miles) on a single charge. Unlike most previous electric vehicles, which Musk thought were stodgy and uninteresting, it was a sports car that could go from 0 to 97 km (60 miles) per hour in less than four seconds. In 2012 Tesla introduced the Model S sedan, which was acclaimed by automotive critics for its performance and design. Dissatisfied with the projected cost ($68 billion) of a high-speed rail system in California, Musk in 2013 proposed an alternate, faster system, the  Hyperloop, a pneumatic tube in which a pod carrying 28 passengers would travel the 560 km (350 miles) between  Los Angeles  and San Francisco in 35 minutes at a top speed of 1,220 km (760 miles) per hour, nearly the  speed of sound . Musk claimed that the Hyperloop would cost only $6 billion and that, with the pods departing every two minutes on average, the system could accommodate the six million people who travel that route every year. However, he stated that, between running SpaceX and Tesla, he could not devote time to the Hyperloop’s development. Erik Gregersen 
 
 Learn More  in these related articles: 
 SpaceX SpaceX was formed by entrepreneur Elon Musk in the hopes of revolutionizing the aerospace industry and making affordable spaceflight a reality. The company entered the arena with the Falcon 1 rocket, a two-stage liquid-fueled craft designed to send small satellites into orbit. The Falcon 1 was vastly cheaper to build and operate than its competitors, a field largely populated by spacecraft... Read More Tesla Motors ...Eberhard was Tesla’s chief executive officer (CEO) and Tarpenning its chief financial officer (CFO). Funding for the company was obtained from a variety of sources, most notably PayPal cofounder Elon Musk, who contributed more than $30 million to the new venture and served as chairman of the company, beginning in 2004. Read More PayPal  American e-commerce company formed in March 2000 that specializes in Internet money transfers. It was heavily used with and eventually purchased by the Internet auction company eBay. Paypal was the product of a merger between X.com and Confinity, and it allowed users to make payments on purchased... Read More 
 
 
 More about  Elon Musk 
 
 2 References found in Britannica Articles Assorted References SpaceX
		( in  SpaceX )
	 Tesla Motors
		( in  Tesla Motors )
	 
 
 
 External Links 
 
 
 
 Famous Entrepreneurs - Biography of Elon Musk 
 
 
 New Mexico Museum of Space History - International Space Hall of Fame - Biography of Elon Musk 
 
 
 The Famous People - Biography of Elon Musk 
 
 
 The Immigrant Learning Center - Biography of Elon Musk 
 
 
 
 Britannica Web sites 
 Articles from Britannica encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Elon Musk - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) (born 1971). South African-born American entrepreneur Elon Musk cofounded the online money-transfer firm PayPal. In the early 21st century he turned his attention to the manufacture of space vehicles. Musk was also one of the first significant investors in and chairman of the electric car manufacturer Tesla Motors. 
 Article Contributors 
 
 Article History 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                Feedback
             
 
 
 Corrections? Updates? Help us improve this article! 
 Contact our editors with your feedback. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Keep Exploring Britannica 
 
 
 
 
 Famous People in History 
 Take this History quiz at encyclopedia britannica to test your knowledge of famous personalities. 
 
 
            Take this Quiz 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mao Zedong 
 principal Chinese Marxist theorist, soldier, and statesman who led his country’s communist revolution. Mao was the leader of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) from 1935 until his death, and he was chairman... 
 
 
            Read this Article 
 
 
 
 
 
 John McCain 
 U.S. senator who was the Republican Party ’s nominee for president in 2008 but was defeated by Barack Obama. McCain represented Arizona in the U.S. House of Representatives (1983–87) before being elected... 
 
 
            Read this Article 
 
 
 
 
 
 Donald Trump 
 45th president of the United States (2017–). Trump was also a real-estate developer who amassed vast hotel, casino, golf, and other properties in the New York City area and around the world. Business... 
 
 
            Read this Article 
 
 
 
 
 
 The United States: Fact or Fiction? 
 Take this Geography True or False Quiz at Encyclopedia Britannica to test your knowledge of the United States. 
 
 
            Take this Quiz 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 Modern Corporate Criminals 
 Below we discuss some of the most notorious corporate criminals of the last half century, in chronological order of the crimes for which they are best known. 
 
 
            Read this List 
 
 
 
 
 
 Famous American Faces: Fact or Fiction? 
 Take this History True or False Quiz at Encyclopedia Britannica to test your knowledge of Daniel Boone, Benjamin Franklin, and other famous Americans. 
 
 
            Take this Quiz 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 Signs It’s Already the Future 
 Sometimes—when watching a good sci-fi movie or stuck in traffic or failing to brew a perfect cup of coffee—we lament the fact that we don’t have futuristic technology 
 now . But future tech may... 
 
 
            Read this List 
 
 
 
 
 
 United Nations (UN) 
 UN international organization established on October 24, 1945. The United Nations (UN) was the second multipurpose international organization established in the 20th century that was worldwide in scope... 
 
 
            Read this Article 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mahatma Gandhi 
 Indian lawyer, politician, social activist, and writer who became the leader of the nationalist movement against the British rule of India. As such, he came to be considered the father of his country.... 
 
 
            Read this Article 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 of the World’s Most-Devastating Financial Crises 
 Many of us still remember the collapse of the U.S. housing market in 2006 and the ensuing financial crisis that wreaked havoc on the U.S. and around the world. Financial crises are, unfortunately, quite... 
 
 
            Read this List 
 
 
 
 
 
 Christopher Columbus 
 master navigator and admiral whose four transatlantic voyages (1492–93, 1493–96, 1498–1500, and 1502–04) opened the way for European exploration, exploitation, and colonization of the Americas. He has... 
 
 
            Read this Article 
 
 
 
 
 View More 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MEDIA FOR: 
 Elon Musk 
 
 
 Previous 
 
 Next 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Facebook 
 Twitter 
 Google+ 
 LinkedIn 
 Pinterest 
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
 Citation 
 
 MLA 
 APA 
 Harvard 
 Chicago 
 
 
 
 
 
 Email 
   
 
 
 
 To: 
 
 From: 
 
 Comment: 
 
 
 
 
 
 You have successfully emailed this. 
 Error when sending the email. Try again later. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Edit Mode 
 
 
 
 
 
 Elon Musk 
 American entrepreneur 
 
 
  Tips for Editing 
 Leave Edit Mode 
 Submit 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tips For Editing 
 
 
 
            We welcome suggested improvements to any of our articles. You can make it easier for us to review and, hopefully, publish your contribution by keeping a few points in mind.
         
 
 
 Encyclopædia Britannica articles are written in a neutral objective tone for a general audience. 
 You may find it helpful to search within the site to see how similar or related subjects are covered. 
 Any text you add should be original, not copied from other sources. 
 At the bottom of the article, feel free to list any sources that support your changes, so that we can fully understand their context. (Internet URLs are the best.) 
 
 
 
            Your contribution may be further edited by our staff, and its publication is subject to our final approval. Unfortunately, our editorial approach may not be able to accommodate all contributions.
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Submit 
 
 
 
 
 Thank You for Your Contribution! 
 
 
 Our editors will review what you've submitted, and if it meets our criteria, we'll add it to the article. 
 Please note that our editors may make some formatting changes or correct spelling or grammatical errors, and may also contact you if any clarifications are needed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Uh Oh 
 
 
 There was a problem with your submission. Please try again later. 
 Close 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Stay Connected 
 Facebook 
 Twitter 
 YouTube 
 Instagram 
 Pinterest 
 
 Newsletters 
 
 
 
 About Us 
 About Our Ads 
 Partner Program 
 Contact Us 
 Privacy Policy 
 Terms of Use 
 
        ©2017 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Menu 
 
 
 
 Home 
 Spotlight 
 Demystified 
 Quizzes 
 Galleries 
 Lists 
 On This Day 
 Biographies 
 
 Login 
 Join 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Elon Musk 
 American entrepreneur 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            View All Media
                             
	                            (1 Image, 1 Video)
                             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Media 
 
 Print 
 
 
 Cite 
 
 
 
 
 Share 
 
 
 Share 
 
 Facebook 
 Twitter 
 Google+ 
 LinkedIn 
 Email 
 
 
 
 
 Feedback 
 
 
 
 Feedback 
 
				Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article
			     (requires login).
			  
 
 Select feedback type: 
 
 Select a type (Required) 
 Factual Correction 
 Spelling/Grammar Correction 
 Link Correction 
 Additional Information 
 Other 
 
 
 
 
 Submit Feedback 
 
 If you prefer to suggest your own revision of the article, you can  go to edit mode   (requires login). 
 
 
 Thank you for your feedback 
 Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. 
 
                 Join  Britannica's Publishing Partner Program  and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work!
              
 
 
 
 share 
 Share 
 
 
 Share 
 
 Facebook 
 Twitter 
 Google+ 
 LinkedIn 
 Email 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Email this page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Email to 
 
 
 
 
 
 Email from 
 
 
 
 
 
 Subject 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cancel 
 Send 
 
 
 
 
 
 × 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
